Sturdy uis xstate (#78)
eggheadio/eggheadio-course-notes: construct-sturdy-uis-with-xstate/notes/01-introducing-construct-sturdy-uis-with-xstate.md

# Introducing Construct Sturdy UIs with Xstate

- [Video Link](https://egghead.io/lessons/react-introducing-construct-sturdy-uis-with-xstate)

### 3 main reasons why `Xstate` is awesome

> - State machines encourage planning out component before you created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- State machines encourage planning out your component before you create it.
```

  - Planned code is better code.
- State machines are an old idea and this means that it has been battletested.

> - Xstate provides a browser visualizer in which we can insert our coud and it will create diagrams. This helps communicate the idea better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Xstate provides a browser visualizer in which we can insert our code and it will create diagrams. This helps communicate the idea better.
```

```
In this course we will build an app that challenges us to match a starwars character to their home world
```

### Things we will learn in this course

1.  How to map out the states and events of your state machine and create the transitions that connect the states together.

2.  Explain context to store extra data and use actions and services to interact with the world outside of the state machine.

3.  Build larger state machines that have sub state inside of them and use guards to decide at the time of the event what transition to take.

4.  How to use parallel states to model situations where state machine can be in more than one state at the same time.

5.  How to create multiple machines that live in different components and explain how to coordinate b/w the different machines by passing messages through component props.

6.  How to use history states as way to have state machines remember where it was in a particular area so you can return to it later.

> 7.  How to use activites to start a process when a state is entered and ended when the state is exited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7.  How to use activites to start a process when a state is entered and end it when the state is exited.
```
